# sbt11-scrooge

Sbt11-scrooge is an sbt 0.11 plugin that adds support for using scrooge to perform Thrift code generation.

NOTE: Currently, the Scrooge runtime is built _only_ for Scala 2.9.1 and 2.9.2, and _only_ for SBT 0.11.2 or 0.11.3.

## How it works

The plugin registers itself as a source generator for the compile phase.

It fetches scrooge from the public Twitter maven repository, caches it in your project, and runs it against your thrift folder (usually `src/main/thrift`).
The generated code folder (usually `target/src_managed`) is then added to your compile path.

## Using it

You'll need to add a plugin to your `project/plugins.sbt`, and a settings sequence to your `build.sbt` or `Build.scala`, whichever you use.

Here's a working example `project/plugins.sbt` for SBT 0.11.2:

    resolvers += "twitter-repo" at "http://maven.twttr.com"
    
    addSbtPlugin("com.twitter" %% "sbt11-scrooge" % "3.0.0")

    addSbtPlugin("com.twitter" %% "sbt-package-dist" % "1.0.6")

And for SBT 0.11.3:

    resolvers += "twitter-repo" at "http://maven.twttr.com"
    
    addSbtPlugin("com.twitter" %% "sbt11-scrooge" % "3.0.2")

    addSbtPlugin("com.twitter" %% "sbt-package-dist" % "1.0.7")

If you use a `build.sbt` file, add this incantation at the top:

    import com.twitter.sbt._

And this anywhere:

    seq(CompileThriftScrooge.newSettings: _*)

If you use `Build.scala`, add `CompileThriftScrooge.newSettings` to your settings list.

Here's a sample `project/Build.scala`:

    import sbt._
    import Keys._
    import com.twitter.sbt._
    
    object YourProject extends Build {
      val finagleVersion = "3.0.0"
    
      lazy val root = Project(
        id = "yourproject",
        base = file("."),
        settings = Project.defaultSettings ++
          StandardProject.newSettings ++
          CompileThriftScrooge.newSettings
      ).settings(
        name := "yourproject",
        organization := "com.example",
        version := "1.0.0-SNAPSHOT",
        scalaVersion := "2.9.1",
        
        libraryDependencies ++= Seq(
          "org.apache.thrift" % "libthrift" % "0.8.0" intransitive,
          "com.twitter" %% "finagle-core" % finagleVersion,
          "com.twitter" %% "finagle-thrift" % finagleVersion,
          "org.jboss.netty" % "netty" % "3.2.6.Final",
          "com.twitter" %% "scrooge-runtime" % "1.1.3"
        ),
        
        CompileThriftScrooge.scroogeVersion := "2.5.4",
        CompileThriftScrooge.scroogeBuildOptions := List("--finagle"),
        PackageDist.packageDistConfigFilesValidationRegex := Some(".*")
      )
    }
  

## Configuration

A full list of settings is in the (only) source file. Here are the ones you're most likely to want to edit:

- `scroogeVersion: String`

  to use a different version of scrooge than the current default

- `scroogeCacheFolder: File`

  to unpack the downloaded scrooge release into a different folder

- `scroogeBuildOptions: Seq[String]`

  list of command-line arguments to pass to scrooge (default:
  `Seq("--finagle", "--ostrich", "--verbose")`)

- `scroogeThriftIncludeFolders: Seq[File]`

  list of folders to search when processing "include" directives (default: none)

- `scroogeThriftSourceFolder: File`

  where to find thrift files to compile (default: `src/main/thrift/`)

- `scroogeThriftOutputFolder: File`

  where to put the generated scala files (default: `target/<scala-ver>/src_managed`)


# Notes for helping work on sbt11-scrooge

## Building

To build the plugin locally and publish it to your local filesystem:

    $ sbt publish-local

## Testing

There is a really crude scripted plugin. You can run it with:

    $ sbt scripted

It currently has the version number hard-coded, so you may need to update that
manually. (Note: On my mac, this just consumes all memory and dies. Does this
work for anyone? -robey)


# Notes for people upgrading from very old versions

## Upgrading from sbt-thrift

The scala bindings are not 100% compatible with the scala bindings that were
generated by sbt-thrift. Here are the notable differences:

- You need to add "scrooge-runtime" as a dependency. If using Scala 2.9.1:

    `val scrooge_runtime = "com.twitter" %% "scrooge-runtime" % "1.1.3"`
    
For Scala 2.9.2:

    `val scrooge_runtime = "com.twitter" %% "scrooge-runtime" % "3.0.1"`
    
The runtime is not currently built for Scala 2.10.

- The names of the interfaces have changed:

  - `(service).ServiceIface` is now `(service).FutureIface`

  - `(service).Service` is now `(service).FinagledService`

  - `(service).Client` is now `(service).FinagledClient`

  - `BinaryThriftSerializer` is now `BinaryThriftStructSerializer[A]`, like:

      `val serializer = new BinaryThriftStructSerializer[Beer] { def codec = Beer }`

## Upgrading from java

If you're switching from java generated code, there are a few other (fairly
large) differences:

- All container types are scala-native (Seq, Set, Map).

- Enums are case objects (but still subclass TEnum).

- Class, struct, and enum names are all converted to StudyCaps, so for
  example `ERROR` becomes `Error`.

- Method names are all converted to camelCase, so for example `GetName`
  becomes `getName` and `set_name` becomes `setName`.

- Structs are case classes, so they are immutable and have real, actual
  constructors (!). Multi-line field-setting struct construction should be
  converted to a single-line case class constuctor call.

- Optional fields are implemented as `Option[A]`.
